# Overview

<div class="columns" markdown="1">

We invite submissions to the AAAI Fall Symposium on Advances in Cognitive Systems,
which will take place in Arlington, Virginia on November 4, 5, and 6,
2011. The new meeting will bring together researchers with interests
in human-level intelligence, complex cognition, integrated intelligent
systems, cognitive architectures, and related topics. This event harks
a return to the initial goals of artificial intelligence and cognitive
science, which aimed to explain intelligence in computational terms
and reproduce the entire range of human cognitive abilities in
computational artifacts.

Because many researchers remain committed to this original vision,
there is need for a meeting that provides a place to present recent
results and pose new challenges for the field. However, because this
community retains many ties to mainstream artificial intelligence and
cognitive science, annual events will be colocated with existing
activities associated with the AI and Cognitive Science communities. 
The initial meeting will serve as one of the 2011 AAAI Fall Symposia.

The symposium will offer a venue to report work on any topic related
to the representation or organization of complex mental structures,
their use in multi-step cognition, or their acquisition from
experience or instruction. Some functional capabilities that arise in
this context include:

 - Conceptual Inference and Reasoning
 - Memory Storage and Retrieval
 - Language Processing
 - Social Cognition and Interaction
 - High-level Execution and Control
 - Problem Solving and Heuristic Search
 - Metacognition
 - Structural Learning and Knowledge Capture

Some research communities already address such issues, including those
dealing with cognitive architectures, cognitive robotics, commonsense
reasoning, qualitative modeling, and many others. We especially
welcome submissions from those working in these and other areas who
are interested in complex cognition, human-level intelligence, and
related topics.

</div>

# Participation, Submission, and Publication

<div class="columns" markdown="1">

Because attendance at the meeting will be selective, researchers who
would like to participate must submit a brief
[statement of interest](http://cogsys.org/acs/2011/apply) at the
symposium Web site, along with links to one or more papers they have
written in the area of cognitive systems. The organizing committee
will use this information to determine whether to invite applicants to
participate in the meeting.

We also invite researchers to submit papers for presentation at the
event. Submitted papers should follow the 
[AAAI two-column format](http://www.aaai.org/Publications/Author/) 
and should be no more than eight (8) pages in length. Any papers that
diverge from this format or that exceed this length will be returned
without review.  In addition, each submission should state explicitly
the problem or capability it addresses, describe its response to this
problem, make claims about this approach, and provide evidence in
support of these claims. Every paper should also discuss related
efforts, examine limitations of the reported work, and outline plans
for future research.

Accepted papers will appear in a AAAI technical report that will 
be available at the meeting. To improve overall quality of these
publications, some submissions may be accepted on a conditional
basis. To increase participation despite a limited number of speaker
slots, we expect to accept some submissions for poster presentation 
at the meeting.

</div>

# Review Process

<div class="columns" markdown="1">

Because the symposium aims to encourage research toward a broader
understanding of intelligence, its criteria for determining
contributions will differ from those used in traditional circles. 
Progress may take many forms, including demonstrating new
functionality, integrating different facets of intelligence,
presenting a novel approach to an established problem, explaining
complex cognition in humans, and formally analyzing a difficult new
task. We also welcome submissions on new problems or testbeds that
challenge existing approaches.

Papers that report incremental variants of existing methods, minor
improvements on performance metrics for established tasks, or
mathematical analyses of component algorithms are not in themselves
relevant to this meeting unless they aid progress toward cognitive
systems with broad functionality.

Each submission will be assigned to multiple referees who will
evaluate the paper for its contribution to understanding cognitive
systems, clarity of claims about this contribution, convincing
evidence in support of those claims, and cogent presentation of its
ideas to readers. We encourage authors to examine the
[review form](../review-form) before drafting their manuscripts to
ensure that their submissions address all of the dimensions on which
reviewers will evaluate them.

Although we expect most submissions to be accepted or rejected
outright, some papers may be accepted conditionally. In such cases,
the authors will receive an itemized list of changes they must make in
their final paper. Revised papers that satisfy these conditions will 
be included in the publication associated with the symposium. 

</div>

# Location, Dates, and Other Information

<div class="columns" markdown="1">

The AAAI Fall Symposium on Advances in Cognitive Systems will run from
**Friday, November 4**, through **Sunday, November 6, 2011**, in
**Arlington, Virginia**, as part of the AAAI Fall Symposia.

The meeting aims to be as inclusive as possible while still fostering
innovative research on the computational nature of intelligence. 
Authors who have questions about whether their research is appropriate
for the meeting should contact the Program Chair, Pat Langley
(<langley@asu.edu>), for additional information.

## Important Dates

 - **May 20, 2011** deadline for statement of interest
 - **July 15, 2011** deadline for paper submission
 - **August 8, 2011** decisions about paper acceptance
 - **September 9, 2011** deadline for final papers
 - **November 4-6, 2011** symposium
 
 </div>

# Organizing Committee

<div markdown="1">

 - **Paul Bello** Office of Naval Research
 - **Nick Cassimatis** Rensslaer Polytechnic Institute
 - **Kenneth Forbus** Northwestern University
 - **John Laird** University of Michigan, Ann Arbor
 - **Pat Langley** Arizona State University / ISLE
 - **Sergei Nirenburg** University of Maryland, Baltimore County
 
 </div>

# Program Committee

<div markdown="1">

 - **David Aha** Naval Research Laboratory
 - **James Allen** University of Rochester
 - **Chitta Baral** Arizona State University
 - **Gautam Biswas** Vanderbilt University
 - **Jim Blythe** University of Southern California
 - **Michael Cox** University of Maryland
 - **Scott Fahlman** Carnegie Mellon University
 - **Ashok Goel** Georgia Institute of Technology
 - **Jerry Hobbs** University of Southern California
 - **Randolph Jones** Soar Technology
 - **Kai-Uwe Kuehnberger** University of Osnabr&uuml;ck
 - **David McDonald** Smart Information Flow Technologies
 - **Paul Rosenbloom** University of Southern California
 - **Claude Sammut** University of New South Wales
 - **Matthias Scheutz** Tufts University
 - **Ute Schmidt** University of Bamberg
 - **Stuart Shapiro** SUNY at Buffalo
 - **Bill Swartout** University of Southern California
 - **Patrick Winston** Massachusetts Institute of Technology
 - **R. Michael Young** North Carolina State University
 
 </div>
